A grid-based layout in CSS allows you to design flexible and responsive web layouts using rows and columns. It provides precise control over element placement and alignment.

## Key benefits of CSS Grid:
- 2D Layout - Works in both rows and columns
- Precise Alignment - Control over item positioning
- Flexible & Responsive - Adapts to different screen sizes
- No needs for Floats or Flexbox

# Grid Containers

The `grid container` is the parent element where CSS Grid is applied. It defines the overall grid structure.

## How to Create a Grid Container

```css
.container {
  display: grid; /* Activates CSS Grid */
}
```

## Grid Container Properties
1. `display: grid` - Enables Grid layout

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
}
```

# Grid Items

Grid items are the direct child elements of a grid container. They occupy the grid's defined spaces.

## Grid Items Properties
1. `grid-column` - Controls which column an item spans
2. `grid-row` - Controls which row an item spans
3. `grid-area` - Assigns an item to a specific named area
4. `align-self` - Aligns an item vertically
5. `justify-self` - Aligns an item horizontally

```css
.item1 {
  grid-column: 1 / 3; /* Spans across 2 columns */
}

.item2 {
  grid-row: 2 / 4; /* Spans across 2 rows */
}
```


# Grid Templates

Grid templates define a layout structure using named areas for better readability and organization.

## Grid templates properties
1. `grid-template-columns` - Defines column structures
2. `grid-template-rows` - Define row structure
3. `grid-template-areas` - Assigns names to sections

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 200px auto;
  grid-template-rows: auto auto;
  grid-template-areas:
    "header header"
    "sidebar content";
}

.header {
  grid-area: header;
}

.sidebar {
  grid-area: sidebar;
}

.content {
  grid-area: content;
}
```


# Gaps and Lines

Grid `gaps` and `lines` define the spacing and structure of a grid

## Gaps

Controls the space between grid items (not outside the grid)
- `row-gap`: Space between rows
- `column-gap`: Space between columns
- `gap`: Short hand for both rows and columns
## Lines

Grid lines are the invisible vertical and horizontal dividers between columns and rows. Items can be placed or spanned using grid line numbers

## Exam notes

Grid based layouts allow for flexible, structured designs by organizing content into rows and columns. The `container` defines the grid, `items` are placed inside, `templates` control layout structure, `gap` & `lines` manage spacing and alignment.