
# SIX-STEPS PLAN FOR MANAGING AN APPLICATION

## 1. PLANNING
- The most critical, laying the groundwork for the entire project.
- Involves a comprehensive examination of:
	- Project's scopes
	- Objectives
	- Resources 
	- Constraints
- This phase is characterized by detailed discussions, analysis, and documentation to ensure a clear understanding of what needs to be achieved and how it will be accomplished.
**What is the ultimate goal of the application?**
**Decide which languages and technologies to build the application?**

## 2. DESIGN
- Where Ideas take shape, transforming requirements into tangible blueprints for development.
- Involves:
	- Architectural Design
	- System specifications
	- Interface Design	

## 3. DEVELOPMENT
- Is where the software solution begins to take shape through the implementation of the designs and specifications outlined in the previous phases.
- Involves:
	- Writing code
	- Building software components
	- Integrating to create a functional product

## 4. TESTING
- Plays a pivotal role in ensuring the quality, reliability, and performance of the software product.
- Involves:
	- Systematically evaluate the software against specified requirements
	- Uncovering defects, bugs, abnormalities, or anything that takes away from the effectiveness or consistency of the application
	- Validate that it meets user expectations
- Often performed in a sandbox, an environment that mimics a live production environment but is kept separate to avoid issues with current systems.

## 5. DEPLOYMENT
- Marks the transition from development to production, where the software solution is prepared for release and made available to end-users.
- Must consider the potential workflow disruption and any downtime that may result from the application's deployment.
- Ensures a smooth and seamless transition from development to operations.

## 6. MAINTAINANCE
- Have pre-determined intervals to assess software for functionality and security.
- Essential for:
	- Addressing bugs,
	- Implementing updates
	- Responding to user feedbacks
	to sustain the software's value over time.
