# INPUT VALIDATION ERRORS

Understanding input validation errors is crucial when debugging and testing web applications.

Developers must ensure that all user inputs are validated to safeguard applications against:
- Injection attacks
- Cross-site scripting
- SQL Injection

Additionally, input validation ensures an application runs efficiently by guaranteeing that data sent to a server or database is correctly formatted. This simplifies working with the data in future scenarios.

There are many tools to validate user input, but we will focus on **HTML attributes**, including:
- Required: Dictates that a field must be filled out for a form to submit.
- Type: Specifies the type of input field, affecting the format and validation for said input.
- Max-length: Specifies the maximum length for a given input field.
- Regular expressions: Specifies a sequence or pattern of characters that user input must satisfy. Can be used with **HTML pattern attributes** or within **Javascript**
- ...

We can also use pure **Javascript** to validate input data.


## EXAM NOTES

Be aware of methods for validating user input:
- HTML Attributes:
	- Required
	- Type 
	- Max-length
	Know how each of them functions.
- Regular Expressions:
	- Know the use of regex: test for a pattern or sequence.
	- Get familiar with some basic regex.
- Javascript:
	- Understand that Javascript functions can also be used to validate input.


 ***Have an understanding of why validating user input is important?***

---
# RUNTIME ERRORS

Occurs when a program is running and encounters an issue that prevents it from functioning correctly.
Unlike compile-time errors (which occur during code complication), runtime errors are detected only when the application is executed.
Can lead to:
- Crashes
- Unexpected behavior
- Incorrect outputs

For our purpose, it refer to the period where our HTML loads and our Javascript runs dynamically on a webpage.
Typically send messages in **Developer tools** or **Console**, giving insides into the problems.

## Examples of Runtime Errors

- Javascript Errors:
	- Trying to access properties of an undefined object
	- Using a function or variables that doesn't exist
	- Syntax issues that go unnoticed until execution

- API Errors:
	- Failure to handle an error response from a server
	- Parsing errors when working with JSON or other data formats

- Browser-Specific Errors:
	- Features unsupported in certain browsers.
	- Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) errors when accessing external APIs


## EXAM NOTES

Understand that runtime errors are not the same as syntactic errors.
Happens during code execution.

---
# BREAKPOINTS

Allows developers to debug code by stepping through it, line by line.
Are frequently used to analyze variables as loops or callbacks are performed.

Can trigger breakpoints by:
- Adding `debugger`
- Set breakpoints in:
	- Browser's Developer tool
	- IDEs / Code editors

## EXAM NOTES

Know what are breakpoints used for and how to trigger breakpoints

