### SOURCES
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)

# INTRODUCTION

JavaScript (JS) is a lightweight interpreted (or just-in-time compiled) programming language with first-class functions.

JavaScript is a [prototype-based](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Prototype-based_programming), multi-paradigm, [single-threaded](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Thread), [dynamic](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Dynamic_typing) language, supporting object-oriented, imperative, and declarative (e.g. functional programming) styles.

> [!NOTE]
> Do not confuse JavaScript with the [Java programming language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_(programming_language))

JavaScript is a powerful programming language that can add interactivity to a website.
It is versatile and beginner-friendly, compact, yet very flexible.


# CLASS INSTANTIATION

You can declare a class using the `class` keyword.

```javascript
class Animal {

  constructor(species, sound) {
    this.species = species;
    this.sound = sound;
  }

  getSound() {
    return this.sound;
  }

}
```

This declare a class called `Animal`, with:
- A `species` and `sound` property.
- A `constructor` that takes a `species` and `sound` parameter that is used to initialize the new object's properties.
- A `getSound()` method that can refer to the object's properties using `this`.

The constructor is defined using the constructor keyword. Just like a constructor outside a class definition, it will:

- Create a new object
- Bind this to the new object, so you can refer to this in your constructor code
- Run the code in the constructor
- Return the new object.

Given the class declaration code above, you can create and use a new `Animal` instance like this:

```javascript
const cat = new Animal("Cat", "Meow");
const pig = new Animal("Pig", "Oink");

console.log(cat.species)
console.log(pig.species)

cat.getSound()
pig.getSound()
```

## EXAM NOTES

- Understand that ES6 notation allows us to use the `class` keyword and the `constructor` function to define object templates, better known as classes.
- Using that constructor function and proper parameters, we can build objects based on that class.
- Know the basic syntax for retrieving object properties.
- Understand that methods can be built into JS classes and objects. These methods can be called by using object-specific data by using `this` keyword.

# INHERITANCE

We use the `extends` keyword to say that this class inherits from another class.

```javascript
class Dog extends Animal {

  constructor(species, sound, color) {
    super(species, sound);
    this.color = color;
    this.getColor = function () {
      return this.color;
    };
  }

  getColorAndSound() {
    super.getSound();
    this.getColor();
  }
}

```

The first thing this class constructor does is call the superclass constructor using `super()` , passing up the parameters. The superclass constructor takes care of setting the properties. After that, we defined new properties for the subclass.

## EXAM NOTES

- Know which keyword is used for class inheritance and how to use it syntactically.
- Know that the reason for class inheritance is to push elements of a class from a previous class to a new class without rewriting those properties and methods.
- Know that properties and methods specified in an inheriting class are not available to the superclass.











