## SOURCES
- [Event](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event)

The Event interface represents any occurrence on an EventTarget (such as elements, documents, or windows).

Events can be triggered in various ways:

- User Actions: Examples include clicking a mouse button or pressing a key.
- API-Generated Events: For instance, events representing the progress of an asynchronous task.
- Programmatically Triggered Events: By methods like HTMLElement.click() or by creating and dispatching a custom event with EventTarget.dispatchEvent().

There are numerous event types, and some use specialized interfaces derived from the main Event interface. The Event interface itself provides the basic properties and methods that are shared across all event types.
# GESTURE EVENTS

The `addEventListener()` method of the `EventTarget` interface sets up a function that will be called whenever the specified event is delivered to the target.

Common targets are `Element`, or its children, `Document`, and `Window`, but the target may be any object that supports events (such as IDBRequest).

```javascript
addEventListener(type, listener)
addEventListener(type, listener, options)
addEventListener(type, listener, useCapture)
```

- **type**: A case-sensitive string representing the [event type](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events) to listen for.
- **listener**: The object that receives a notification when an event of the specified type occurs. This must be a `null` , an object with a `handleEvent()` method, or a JS function.
- **options**: An object that specifies characteristics about the event listener:
	- ***capture***: A boolean value indicating that events of this type will be dispatched to the registered listener before dispatched to any EventTarget beneath it in the DOM tree. (default to false)
	- ***once***: A boolean value indicating that the listener should be invoked at most once after being added. (default to false)
	- ***passive***: A boolean value indicating that the function specified by listener will never call `preventDefault()`. (default to false)
- **useCapture**: A boolean value indicating that events of this type will be dispatched to the registered listener before dispatched to any EventTarget beneath it in the DOM tree. (default to false)

## EXAM NOTES

- Know how to add an event listener to an object.
- Know the first two parameters that an event listener accepts.
- Be able to recognize incorrect syntax for an event listener.

---

# EVENT OBJECT

The **event object** is a fundamental component of event handling in JavaScript. It represents an event that has occurred and provides information and functionality related to that event.

## EXAM NOTES
- Understand what event object is and how it properties can be accessed.
- Be able to recognize the correct syntax to pass event object to a function.

---

# [EVENT ORDER](https://www.quirksmode.org/js/events_order.html#link4)

**Event Bubbling** is a mechanism in JavaScript where an event propagates from the innermost target element outward to its ancestors in the DOM hierarchy.

## How It Works

1. An event is triggered on a target element (e.g., a button).
2. The event propagates upward, triggering event listeners on its parent, grandparent, and so on, until it reaches the root of the DOM (document).
## Key Points:

1. Propagates upward through the DOM.
2. Allows efficient event handling through event delegation (e.g., adding one listener to a parent instead of multiple children).
3. Can be stopped using event.stopPropagation().


## EXAM NOTES
- Know the different of event bubbling and event cascading.
- Know that the third parameters of `addEventListener` method specifies a `useCapture` value.