API (Application Programming Interfaces) is a set of features and rules that exist inside a software program enabling interaction with it through software.
In Web development, an API is generally a set of code features (e.g. methods, properties, events, urls) that a developer can use in their apps for interacting with components of a user's web browser, other software/hardware on the user's computer, or third-party websites and services.

---
# [GOOGLE CHARTS](https://developers.google.com/chart)

Steps to use google charts:
1. Import Google Charts Library, make sure to import before any javascript file that includes Google Charts functionalities
```html
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.gstatic.com/charts/loader.js"></script>
  <script src="js/api.js"></script>
</head>
```

2. Load Google Charts Library
```javascript
google.charts.load("current", { packages: ["corechart"] });
```
	
	- `current`: Specifies the version of the library to use. `current` ensures the latest version.
	- `{ packages: ["corechart"] }`: Indicates that the `corechart` package is being loading. Other packages might includes:
		- Pie Charts
		- Bar Charts
		- Line Charts
		- ...

3. Set Call back for Chart Rendering
```javascript
google.charts.setOnLoadCallback(drawChart);
```
	
	- Ensure the `drawChart` is called only after the Google Charts library has finished loading.

4. Define the Chart data
```javascript
  var data = google.visualization.arrayToDataTable([
    ["Task", "Hours per Day"],
    ["Work", 11],
    ["Eat", 2],
    ["Commute", 2],
    ["Watch TV", 2],
    ["Sleep", 7],
  ]);
```

	- `google.visualization.arrayToDataTable()`: Converts a standart JavaScript array into a data table format that Google Charts can use.

5. Create and Draw the chart
```javascript
  var chart = new google.visualization.PieChart(
    document.getElementById("pie-chart"),
  );
  chart.draw(data, {
    title: "My Daily Activities",
    is3D: true,
  });
```
	- `new google.visualization.PieChart`: Creates a new PieChart object.
	- `chart.draw(data, options)`: Renders the chart using the specified data and options.

## FINAL CODE
```javascript
google.charts.load("current", { packages: ["corechart"] });

google.charts.setOnLoadCallback(drawChart);

function drawChart() {
  var data = google.visualization.arrayToDataTable([
    ["Task", "Hours per Day"],
    ["Work", 11],
    ["Eat", 2],
    ["Commute", 2],
    ["Watch TV", 2],
    ["Sleep", 7],
  ]);

  var chart = new google.visualization.PieChart(
    document.getElementById("pie-chart"),
  );

  chart.draw(data, {
    title: "My Daily Activities",
    is3D: true,
  });
}
```

## EXAM NOTES
- Know that Google Charts is an API that allows developers to quickly and easily draw data charts for webpages.
- Know that Google Charts is written using Javascript.
- Google Charts render as SVG Images.

---

# [JQUERY](https://jquery.com/)

> *WRITE LESS, DO MORE*

jQuery is a fast, small, feature-rich JavaScript library. It makes things like HTML document traversal and manipulation, event handling, animation, and Ajax much simpler with an easy-to-use API that works across multiple browsers.

As with Google Charts, we need to import jQuery library using the script tag
```html
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.6.0/jquery.min.js"></script>
```

Examples will be provided in practical part.

## EXAM NOTES
- jQuery is a JavaScript library which can be accessed by an api call or local js file. Either script tag should be presented before other script tags.
- Best practice is to use jQuery inside of `$(document).ready(function(){})` to keep jQuery from running before api call has been made.
```javascript
$(document).ready(function(){
	// Your code here
	//..
})
```
- Know the basic jQuery syntax.


---

# [GEOLOCATION](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API)

Geolocation API allows the user to provide their location to web applications once allowed (for privacy reasons).

We could use Geolocation API to retrieve user's location information to, for example, plot their location on a map, or display personalized information relevant to their location.

Geolocation API is accessed via `navigator.geolocation`; this will cause the browser to ask user for their permission to access their location data. If they accept, then the browser will use functionality on the device to access this information.

Couple of methods to access location information:
- `navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition()`: Retrieves the device's current location.
- `navigator.geolocation.watchPosition()`: Registers a handler function that will be called automatically each time the position of the device changes, returning the updated location.
- `navigator.geolocation.clearWatch(watchId)`: Stop watching the user's location.

## EXAM NOTES
- Know what Geolocation API does and what methods it provides.
- Know what properties is provided in the return object of each method.