# INTRODUCTION

### Sources
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API)
- [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html5_canvas.asp)

Canvas is an HTML element used to create graphic elements and animations based on Javascript code.

`window.onload`: Ensure that all elements of a web page, including the `canvas` element, are fully loaded before executing any code that interacts with them. This is particularly important when working with a `canvas` element because trying to manipulate the canvas before it is loaded can result in errors or unexpected behavior.

`window.onload` event fires when:
- The entire HTML document is loaded.
- All linked resources, such as images, stylesheets, and Javascript files, are fully loaded.

```javascript
window.onload = function () {
	var canvas = document.getElementById("canvas")
	var ctx = canvas.getContext("2d") // context
}
```

The `document.getElementById` method gets a reference to the HTML `<canvas>` element.
Next, the `canvas.getContext`  method gets that element's context - the thing onto which the drawing will be rendered. Each time we draw on our canvas, we use methods belong to the `context` variable.

# SHAPES

***GRIDS \ COORDINATE SPACES

- By default, 1 unit in the grid corresponds to 1 pixel on the canvas.
- The origin of the grid is positioned in the top left corner at coordinate (0, 0). All elements are placed relative to this origin.
- Coordinate (x, y) refers to position of x pixels from the left, and y pixels from the top.

	`<canvas>` only supports two primitive shapes:
	- Rectangles
	- Paths ( lists of points connected by lines)
	All other shapes must be created by combining one or more paths.

***RECTANGLES

There are three functions that draw rectangles on the canvas:

```javascript
fillRect(x, y, width, height) // Draws a filled rectangle

strokeRect(x, y, width, height) // Draws a outlined rectangle

clearRect(x, y, width, height) // Clears the specified rectangular area, making it fully transparent
```

Each of these three functions takes the same parameters:
- `x` and `y`: Specify the position on the canvas (relative to the origin), refer to the top-left corner of the rectangle.
- `width` and `height`: Specify the size of the rectangle.

***PATHS

Path is a list of points, connected by segments of lines that can be of different shapes, width and color.
To make shapes using path, we follow these steps:
1. Create the path
2. Then use [drawing commands](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D#paths) to draw into the path.
3. Once the path has been created, you can stroke or fill the path to render it.


These followings are functions used to perform these steps:
- `beginPath()`: Creates a new path.
- [Path methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D#paths): Methods to set different paths for objects.
- `closePath()`: Adds a straight line to the path, going to the start of the current sub-path.
- `stroke()`: Draws the shape by stroking its outline.
- `fill()`: Draws a solid shape by filling the path's content area.

The first step to create a path is to call `beginPath()`. Every time this method is called, the list is reset and we can start drawing new shapes.

> [!NOTE]
> First path construction command is always treated as `moveTo()`, regardless of what it actually is.

The second step is calling the methods that actually specify the paths to be drawn.
The third (optional) step is to call `closePath()`. This method tries to close the shape by drawing a straight line from the current point to the start. If the shape has already been closed or there's only one point in the list, this function does nothing.


> [!NOTE]
> When you call `fill()`, any open shapes are closed automatically. This is not the case with `stroke()`.

***LINES

For drawing straight lines, use the `lineTo()` method.
```javascript
lineTo(x, y) // draws a line from the current drawing position to the position specified by x and y
```

***CIRCLES

To draw arcs or circles, we use the `arc()` or `arcTo()` methods.

```javascript
/*
** x, y: Position of the starting point of the arc
** radius: radius of the arc
** startAngle, endAngle: The arc will start at startAngle and end at endAngle, in radian
** counterclockwise: The direction of the arc (default to clockwise)
*/
arc(x, y, radius, startAngle, endAngle, counterclockwise)

/*
** x1, y1: Position of the starting point of the arc
** x2, y2: Position of the ending point of the arc
** radius: radius of the arc
** The starting and ending point are connected by a straight line.
*/
arcTo(x1, y1, x2, y2, radius)
```

>[!NOTE]
>Angles in the arc function are measured in radians, not degrees. To convert degrees to radians you can use the following JavaScript expression:
>`radians = (Math.PI/180)*degrees.`


# COLORS

If we want to apply colors to a shape, there are two important properties we can use:
- `fillStyle = color`: Sets the style used when filling shapes.
- `strokeStyle = color`: Sets the style for shapes' outlines.

`color` is a string representing a CSS [`<color>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value), a gradient object, or a pattern object.

By default, `fillStyle` and `strokeStyle` are set to black (`#000000`)


```javascript
// these all set the fillStyle to 'orange'

ctx.fillStyle = "orange";
ctx.fillStyle = "#FFA500";
ctx.fillStyle = "rgb(255 165 0)"; // rgb
ctx.fillStyle = "rgb(255 165 0 / 100%)"; //rgba
```


# TRANSFORM

With **transformations**, there are more powerful ways to translate the origin to different position, rotate the grid and even scale it.
Any of the **transformations** methods only changes the frame of reference for future objects.
### TRANSLATION (`translate()`)

This method is used to move the canvas and its origin to a different point in the grid.

```javascript
translate(x,y) // Move the canvas and its origin on the grid.
```
### ROTATION (`rotate()`)

This method is used to rotate the canvas around the current origin.

```javascript
rotate(angle) // Rotates the canvas clockwise around the current origin by angle number of radians.
```

The rotation center point is always the canvas origin. To change the center point, we will need to move the canvas by using the `translate` method.
### SCALE (`scale()`)

This method is used to increases or decrease the units in our canvas grid. This can be used to draw scaled down or enlarged shapes and bitmaps.

```javascript
scale(x, y) // Scales the canvas units by x horizontally and y vertically.
```

Both parameters are real numbers. Values that are smaller than 1.0 reduce the unit size and values above 1.0 increase the unit size.

Using negative numbers can do axis mirroring.

By default, one unit on the canvas is exactly one pixel. If we apply scaling, canvas unit will scale accordingly.

## EXAM NOTES

- Be able to recognize the difference between how transformation methods work in terms of their effects on the canvas and grid system.


# INTERACTIVITY

Because `<canvas>` is drawn using Javascript, there are multiple ways to develop interactive and dynamic content.
We can change our canvas content appropriately using window events and mouse events.







