## SOURCES
- [SVG MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Introduction)
- [SVG Glossary](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/SVG)
- [W3C](https://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/IG/resources/svgprimer.html)

SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) is a 2D vector image format based on an [XML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/XML) syntax.
Is essentially to graphics what HTML is to text.

---
# ADVANTAGES
- SVG can by styled with CSS and made interactive using Javascript.
- SVG graphics can scale infinitely without pixelation, making them invaluable in responsive design.
- SVG provides a useful set of tools, such as clipping, masking, filters and animations.

## EXAM NOTES

- Understand the different between canvas and SVGs.

---
# INLINE vs. REFERENCED XML

SVG can be rendered using inline XML or referenced XML.
## EXAM NOTES
- For the exam, be able to recognize code blocks that represent these two methods of defining SVGs.
- Remember that external XML and .svg file are referenced using HTML's image tag and source attribute.

---
# SHAPE

There are several basic shapes used for most SVG drawing.
Some of the basic shapes are:
- Rectangles
- Circles
- Ellipses
- Lines
- Polylines
- Polygons
- Paths

Each of the shape takes slightly different parameters.

## RECTANGLES

```xml
<rect x="10" y="10" width="30" height="30" fill="#fff000"/>
<rect x="60" y="10" rx="10" ry="10" width="30" height="30" stroke="#000fff"/>
```

- `x` and `y`: The position of the top left corner of the rectangle.
- `width` and `height`: The size of the rectangle.
- `rx` and `ry`: x and y radius of the corners of the rectangle.
- `fill`: Filled color of the rectangle.
- `stroke`: Outline color of the rectangle.

## CIRCLES

```xml
<circle cx="10" cy="10" r="20"/>
```

- `cx` and `cy`: The position of the center of the circle.
- `r`: The radius of the circle.

## ELLIPSES

```xml
<ellipse cx="75" cy="75" rx="20" ry="5"/>
```

- `cx` and `cy`: The position of the center of the ellipse.
- `rx` and `ry`: The x and y radius of the ellipse.

## LINES

```xml
<line x1="10" x2="50" y1="110" y2="150" stroke="black" stroke-width="5"/>
```

- `x1` and `y1`: The position of start point.
- `x2` and `y2`: The position of end point.

## POLYLINES

```xml
<polyline points="60, 110 65, 120 70, 115 75, 130 80, 125 85, 140 90, 135 95, 150 100, 145"/>
```

- `points`: A list of points. Each number must be separated by a space, comma, EOL or a line feed character with additional whitespace permitted.
- Each point must contain two numbers: an x coordinate and a y coordinate. So, the list (0,0), (1,1), and (2,2) could be written as 0, 0 1, 1 2, 2

## POLYGON

```xml
<polygon points="50, 160 55, 180 70, 180 60, 190 65, 205 50, 195 35, 205 40, 190 30, 180 45, 180"/>
```

- `points`: A list of points, each number separated by a space, comma, EOL, or a line feed character with additional whitespace permitted. Each point must contain two numbers: an x coordinate and a y coordinate. So, the list (0,0), (1,1), and (2,2) could be written as 0, 0 1, 1 2, 2. The drawing then closes the path, so a final straight line would be drawn from (2,2) to (0,0).

## PATHS

```xml
<path d="M20,230 Q40,205 50,230 T90,230" fill="none" stroke="blue" stroke-width="5"/>
```

- `d`: A list of points and other information about how to draw the path.


## EXAM NOTES

- Be able to recognize which elements use the fill attribute and which elements use the stroke attribute.
- Fill value default to black, while stroke value will not display by default.

---
# FILTER EFFECTS

There are situations where basic shapes do not provide the flexibility you need to achieve a certain effect. Filters are SVG's mechanism to create sophisticated effects.

Filters are defined by the `<filter>` element, which should be put in the `<defs>` section of your svg file. To apply your created filter on a graphic element, you set the `filter` attribute.

```xml
<svg>
	<defs>
	  <filter id="blur">
	    <feGaussianBlur in="SourceGraphic" stdDeviation="5" />
	  </filter>
	</defs>

	<circle cx="350" cy="50" r="30" fill="yellow" filter="url(#blur)" />
</svg>
```

## EXAM NOTES

You don't have to remember all the different filter methods/techniques and their values. But you need to know the proper syntax for linking a filter to SVG element.
- Filter tags are defined with an ID value, then linked to an SVG element using `filter` attribute with and `url(#filter_id)` value.